# CSGOMiniProject-Sharvil
This project analyses the number of rounds won during each half by teams in a match for a video game called Counter Strike: Global Offensive.

Counter-Strike: Global Offensive (CS:GO) is a 2012 multiplayer tactical first-person shooter developed by Valve and Hidden Path Entertainment. The game pits two teams, Terrorists and Counter-Terrorists, against each other in different objective-based game modes. The most common game modes involve the Terrorists planting a bomb while Counter-Terrorists attempt to stop them. The match is played on a particular map out of the several available ones. 

Conventionally, both the teams consist of 5 players each and they start on either the Terrorists (T) side or the Counter-Terrorists (CT) side. There are two halves in each map - 15 rounds each. After the first half, both the teams swap out their respective role to the opposite team. If the team played the T side in the first half, they will play the CT side in the second half and vice versa. The T side can win a round by either eliminating all the players from the opposite team, or planting the bomb at specific areas on the map and successfully detonating it after 40 seconds. The CT side wins the round by either eliminating all the players from the opposite team before the bomb is planted, or defusing the bomb after it is planted. The first team to win 16 rounds in total, wins the map. There are a total of 30 rounds played in total on each map. If both the teams score 15 rounds, then the game goes into overtime where the teams have to win at least 4 rounds out of the upcoming 6.

Due to the success and prominence of this video game, several entities and organizations host professional tournaments where most of the big teams compete, most of the time, in world tournaments that bring together teams from all corners of the world. Several professional and esports organizations take part in these. These matches conists of either a best of 3 maps or a best of 1 map format in single or double elimination brackets. Teams have to compete in at least 2 and at most 3 maps from a pool of 7 specific maps used in professional tournament settings. These tournaments are ranked according to their tiers, viz S-tier, A-tier, B-tier, etc. S-Tier Tournaments (formerly known as Premier Tournaments) offer an outstanding prize pool, are almost exclusively played offline, and feature the best teams from all over the world. They are commonly held by well-established organizers and are considered especially prestigious amongst the community. The prize pool for S-tier tournaments is at least hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Empirically, in S-tier tourneys, it has been observed that whenever a team wins less than 5 rounds in the first half, they almost always never win the map. Teams tend to find it difficult to make a comeback and win at least 11 rounds consecutively in a row so as to win the match.

This mini data visualization project will analyze data pertaining to such specific instances and quantify any outliers observed.

Data Collection: Albeit there being several websites that provide statistics for CSGO, the data had to be manually collected by observation and typed into an excel workbook. It contains data about the date and the name of the S-tier tournament, the name of the teams that played a map, the name of the respective map, the number of rounds won by each team in each half and the winner of the map. There are thousands of maps played in any CSGO tournament but for this project, I specifically collected data about those maps where one team always won less than 5 maps in the first half.

Data Cleaning: Was properly carried out to identify and rectify any errors, inconsisties and inaccuracies in the data. The veracity of the data was also double checked. At the end, there are a total of 861 specific instances pertaining to the data we require in the excel workbook
